I believe that education in contemporary society is a vital, and complementary, procedural step in the production of well developed citizens in the United States socio-political landscape. This development of well developed citizens is important for both students and families as it allows students to become agents of change, with the support of the progressive founding philosophies of our society. Although some of the current implementations of public education systems, throughout the states, are questionable, there is a definite progression towards these principles. Education is also vital, as it equips the young generation with the skills needed for both social mobility and individual betterment. It is complementary, most directly, to the moral and social-capitalistic principles taught within the home itself. As with most of the subjects in daily life within America, education is developing more and more progressive values in both the ways that students are taught and what the student learns. We have seen the more frequent development of progressivist and social re-constructionist values within primary and secondary school curriculum, as well as an increase in the degree to which public education are student-centered. Both of these shifts are signals that not only are schools teaching the basic necessities to help foster the creation of well-rounded citizens, but they are also equipping these well rounded individuals with the skills necessary to propagate positive change within their social environment.

I believe that school is, ideally, the center-piece of the modern community. Schools should be upheld as such important entities as they essentially are the creation-centers for upstanding citizens, and because they provide- most of the time- the safety and reliability that is necessary for young minds to develop. As it is the center of the community, it would naturally follow that it is not only educational but also inherently social in the development of the community itself. As per the fundamental underpinnings of the United States government, schools should be inherently cynical of all structures of power within and outside of its walls. As previously discussed, education in schools and in the household (by families and the community) should equip students with social re-constructionist and individualistic ideals giving them the tools to understand and mitigate the oppressive/unjust structures that they might interact on a daily basis. By all venues of learning, whether a school or not, there should effectively be education to eliminate uninformed compliance with a status-quo.

I believe that the subject-matter of education should be two-fold: the teaching of how to maneuver the framework set out by the government, and also the teaching of how to learn and become inspired. It is first subject-matter that every student learn, before graduation, how to become a contributing member of society through already existing venues set out by the government. These contributions can range from the essential such as paying taxes, to the more optional personal informing of political figures to vote with agency. The second subject-matter that is essential for young minds to learn is the process in which they themselves formulate thought and become interested in ideas. The reason why this is so important is because if students become able to understand how they functionally learn the best and strive for their best, then that student is equipped with tools to help themselves and others no matter their socio-economic/political stratum, and that is a beautiful thing. As a teacher, one knows that students are contributing citizens and cognizant of their own mindset when students gain a true agency in their own education. If they do so, then it is clear that, at the very least, the student is striving to understand in their own way how the world works- and as a young person informing themselves is the one of best contributions they can make.

I believe that the best teaching practices are to listen and to connect. What I mean by this is that a teacher should strive to listen to understand how to reach out to their students in the best ways possible. The practice of listening not only allows the student to become a more powerful agent in their own education, but it also gives students a reason to listen back because mutual respect is absolutely necessary with this type of relationship. A teacher should also be able to connect course-materials to students daily lives. This can mean increased cultural competency, or just the integration of activities with real-life situations. With both of these practices, education becomes much more individualized, with heavy importance of the differences between students. By listening, we understand each students concerns and wants for their education; while on the other hand, connecting with student’s lives directly differentiates students in ways that allow them to understand course material better- because they already have some understanding of each lesson.

I believe that the limitations to my personal philosophies about education begin and end at the civil and human rights of students to have and express their own unique ideas. I think that a student has the right to develop their own ideas from their own education, and under no circumstance should education try to change those ideas. I effectively have a philosophical barrier that pushes back against the indoctrination of young people in any way. This is not to say that students can not learn in the inherently imperfect systems of education that they deal with on a daily basis. This just means that education should strive to be as impartial as possible in what is taught so that personal ideas are not hindered. One might object to this philosophy and say that it is necessary, and maybe paradoxical concerning my previous comments about teaching about how to navigate the framework of the government, to have some topics of partiality in education; however, I disagree as I believe that humans are naturally altruistic and good, so they will tend to follow philosophies that are already delineated/widely followed by our society without indoctrination. I personally support the separation of Church and State extremely because of this. Students have the right to an impartial education not colored by the world-view of others, or even themselves. The Establishment Clause’s purpose in doing just that is something that I support, as it has allows for students to separate themselves from having one entity control all areas of their life- a supremely important protection. Like with this issue, I believe that, over the course of the semester, I have become more firm in my ideas of the ideal education. This is because, many but not all, ideas shared in the course were ones that I already supported and the class solidified the fact that these philosophies are completely necessary to have in our society. Overall the class made me question myself and my ideas. I am very thankful for that. 